The point is that if we are to have a rich and full life in which all are to share and play their parts if the American dream is to be a reality our communal spiritual and intellectual life 
it We will walk on our own feet; we will work with our own hands; higher elsewhere, Patriarchs sit at supper with sons and grandsons and great-grandsons around them, where 
groups have their separate interests, habits, market, arts, and lives. If the dream Now the time is at hand when the American Indian stark realists, become once more class-conscious, 
so we will speak our own minds. struggle as individuals or classes against one another. If it is In walls of adobie, in canvas tents, rest hunters and trappers after their day’s 
to come true, those on top, financially, intellectually, or otherwise, have got a devote shall have his day in court through the help of the women of America. to strive to rise not 
to The study of letters shall be no longer a name for pity, economically, but culturally. We cannot become The city sleeps and the country sleeps, great democracy by giving ourselves 
individuals to selfishness physical comfort and cheap amusements. The vert foundation The stain upon America's fair name is to be removed, varying degrees, shall be capable of 
as for doubt, and for sensual indulgence. in it. It can never be wrought into a reality by people or by “keeping The living sleep for their time, the dead sleep for their time, up with 
There is nothing whatever in a fortune merely in itself or in a man merely in himself. It all and the remnant of the Indian nation, suffering from malnutrition, it depends on what is 
at The dread of man and the love of man shall be a wall of defence and a wreath of joy around all. Lincoln was not The old husband sleeps by his wife and the young husband sleeps by 
great became he was born in a log cabin, but because he got out of it - that is, because he rose is to number among the invited invisible guests at your dinner tables. above the 
or A nation of men will for the first time exist, lack of ambition, shiftlessness of character, contentment And these tend inward to me, and I tend outward to them, with mean things 
which kept so many thousands in huts where they were born. We no longer gave the frontier to a In this undertaking there must be cooperation of head, heart and hand. divert us or 
is, because each believes himself inspired by the Divine Soul which also inspires all men. arts And such as it is to be of these more or less I am, We shall steadily become to 
ed country in which our social ideals will have to be such as to give us civilized contentment. Clear We serve both our own government and a voiceless people within our midst. 
can agree on what the values in life are, we clearly can have no goal in education, and if And of these one and all I weave the song of myself. we have no goal, that discussion of 
up Ralph Waldo Emerson of a fair economic base, - the American dream itself opens all sorts of questions as to values. It is easy to say a better and richer life for all men, but what is 
what And on the subject of burning books: I want to congratulate librarians, how they took on the aspects of moral virtues; how we came to consider most an unthinking Zitkala-
thats not famous for their physical strength or their powerful political connections or their great wealth, Walt Whitman ourselves; how we Let America be the dream the dreamers 
such who, all over this country, have staunchly resisted anti-democratic bullies who have tried to remove certain books from their shelves, as we Let it be that great strong land 
very and have refused to reveal to thought police the names of persons who have checked out those titles. our new communities; how we all Where never kings connive nor 
to think manners undemocratic, and a cultivated mind a hindrance to success, a sign of inefficient effeminacy how size and statistics a material That any man be crushed by one 
development came to be more important in our eye than quality and the spiritual values how in the ever So the America I loved still exists, shifting advance of the frontier we came to 
of the past in hopes for that is a if not in the White House or the Supreme Court or the Senate or the House of Representatives or the media. a future; (It never was America to me.) 
to live, in the struggle to “make a living” the how a education tended The America I love still exists at the front desks of our public libraries. order in which each man, and each 
to become utilitarian It is hard to be pessimistic about the West. I saw in their eyes something or aimless and how others unfortunate traits only O, let my land be a land where 
to-day were developed. While we have been absorbed our tasks; I was to see over and over in every part of the nation- the world has also been, Is crowned with no false 
changing. We Americans are not alone in having to search for a a burning desire to go, to move, new scale and basis for the Kurt Vonnegut value But opportunity is real, and life is free, 
several reasons the task is more This is the native home of hope. more essential for us. On the one America will not allow her children to love her. is Equality is in the air we breathe. hand 
transplantation to the New World, at our constant advance over to get under way,  its empty expanse unsettled the old values for us to a far greater extent than in Europe; and, on 
mere fact that there were no old things to be swept away here made us to, She seems bent on compelling those who would be her warmest friends, (There’s never been equality for 
full impact the Industrial When it fully learns that cooperation, anyplace, Revolution and the effect of machinery, when we turned to that life Nor freedom in this “homeland of the 
trial life, to a far greater extent than in Europe, where the revolution originated. holds the good and escape from the bad? to be her worst enemies Are the dream and the frontier 
Land inextricably involved with the ugly scars which have also, away from any Here. been left on us by our three centuries of exploitation, and conquest of the continent? We have 
show how some of the scars obtained not rugged individualism, hot it was that we came to insist, May God give her repentance before it is too late, upon it, Langston Hughes business 
the American dream that has lured ten of millions of all nation They spoke quietly of how they wanted to go someday, to our shores in the past century has not been a dream of 
plenty, though that has doubtless counted heavily upon. It has been much more than that. It has been a dream of, is the ardent prayer of my heart. being able to grow, a fullest 
man and is the quality that most characterizes and preserves it, to move about, woman, unhampered by the barriers which had slowly been I was born black and female. erected 
civilizations, unrepressed by social orders which had developed free and unanchored,  for the benefit of classes rather than I will continue to pray for as the simple human being of 
class And that dream has been realized more fully in actual life not toward something but away from something. here than anywhere else, though very Lorraine Hansberry ourselves. 
been the then it will have achieved itself and outlived its origins. great epic and a great dream. What, now, of the future? From that labor and wait, material standpoint, it is probable 
dream depression will pass in a year or two barring social some I saw this look and heard this yearning everywhere in every states I visited. political overturn in some countries 
delay recovery I am not here concerned with the longer economic problem believing that she cannot always be insensible to the dictates of justice, raised by the relations of 
an Then it has a chance to create a society to match its scenery. Nearly every American hungers to move. The problems, fundamental and of extreme seriousness, have been 
where and by those more competent. But whether, in the next not ade, we shall have again, face furious economic or deaf to the voice of humanity. or whether we shall be 
slowing down of our economic machine, the chief factor in how we shall meet either situation; is that of the American mind. One of the interesting questions, with regard to that 
long subjection to the frontier and other American influences a John Steinbeck has been produced a new type or merely a transient change. Can we hold to the good and escape from 
Are the dream and the idealism of the frontier Wallace Stegner and the New Land inextricably. Some time ago a foreigner who Frederick Douglass used to do some work for me, and 
picked up a very fair education, used occasionally to sit and chat with me in my study after he had finished his work. One day he said that such a 
